Free Introductory Kit

Reality is the Lie
Reality is a conspiracy. A conspiracy that controls the world. And everyone you have ever known is
part of it.
They told us that the earth is round.
And we believed.
They told us that matter is formed of atoms.
And we believed.
They told us that DNA shapes all living things.
And we believed.
Once the conspiracy was small. But with each belief, it grew. The technocratic masters of this
conspiracy worked in secret throughout the ages with only one goal — to construct a reality of their
own choosing, fueled by the belief of desperate billions. A world marching in perfect mechanical
and maddening order. A world with no room for human imperfection or indecision. A World of
Darkness.

The Truth is Magic
You know better.
Space is an illusion — you can be anywhere you choose or everywhere at once.
The boundaries of time don’t apply, for you can see the past and the future. Matter and energy are
etchings on the primal essence, to be made and erased at will.
You know the truth. And the truth is Magic.
But the truth is dying. For centuries, the Technocracy has waged war against those who reject their
version of reality. They extinguish hope and wonder in favor of order and reason. They have indoctrinated or destroyed countless mages. And you are next.

Join the Last Stand in the War for Reality.

Mage:
The Ascension
Introductory
Kit
Table of Contents
Introduction — What is Mage: The Ascension?			
Setting — Mage History and Metaphysics				

4
		

Character Creation— The Makings of a Mage						

5
10

Traditions — The Council of Nine							

11

Traits and Spheres — The Power of the Mage					

14

Health and Quintessence — Behind the Power					

18

Rules — Playing the Game									

19

Combat — Physical and Metaphysical Confrontation				

21

Story Ideas — Suggested Starting Points							

23

Because of the mature themes involved, reader discretion is advised.
Based on the Mage: The Ascension game created by Phil Brucato and Stewart Wieck, with Kathy Ryan, Steve Wieck, Chris Early,
Bill Bridges, Andrew Greenberg, Mark Rein•Hagen and Travis Williams. Revised Edition development by Jesse Heinig.
Check out White Wolf online at www.white-wolf.com.
© 2008 CCP hf. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes
of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf and Mage: The Ascension are registered
trademarks of CCP hf. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by CCP hf. CCP North America Inc.
is a wholly owned subsidiary of CCP hf.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

3

The booklet of rules you now hold is a window into a world or wonder and magic, the world of Mage: The Ascension,
a storytelling game from White Wolf Publishing. Using the rules in the pamphlet, you are able to temporarily take the part
of mages, men and women with the ability to change the very nature of reality, and participate in their struggle to control the
destiny of humankind.

Storytelling
A Storytelling game is like a campfire tale —
several friends all get together to participate in
building a story. Unlike the usual story, though, a
Storytelling game is interactive: Everybody takes
part in the story to shape it and its outcome. Each
player guides the role of a protagonist while the
Storyteller directs and shapes the overall outcome
of the tale. No story has a set ending: Each story can go in a
different direction, elaborating the triumphs and tragedies of
different characters.
A Storytelling game lets the players all shape the tale with
their imaginations. Have you ever wondered what would’ve
happened if a character had done something differently in a
favorite book or novel? Ever wanted to know what would happen
if you placed a hero from one story into a different world? In
a Storytelling game, you get to do just that — you can describe
all the choices for one of the characters while the Storyteller
explains how the tale unfolds as a result. You can guide a
character to specific goals or explore a character’s feelings. It’s
a fun game of make-believe, except that every player follows
the same guides and rules to make the story come together in
a sensible fashion and to allow everyone to participate. Like
more conventional storytelling, you decide whether your stories
will be compelling, horrifying, moral or just fun.

Players and Storytellers
A Storytelling game has several players and one Storyteller.
The Storyteller sets the scene, elaborates on the tale and immerses the players in the world surrounding their characters.
Each player, by contrast, has one starring role: a character,
much like a novel’s hero (or villain!), that she guides through
the circumstances of the story. The protagonist in a novel rarely
knows what troubles he’ll face or what motivates his enemies,
and the same is true in a Storytelling game: Each player is
aware of her own character’s strengths and motivations, but
the antagonists, the setting and the plot all lie wrapped in
mystery, revealed only when the Storyteller chooses. Because
the Storyteller is the authority for this interactive tale, every
player can describe what his character does and how, but it’s
the Storyteller who decides what happens in the surrounding
world. The Storyteller takes on the roles of all the other people
that may appear in the tale, from hags to businesswomen to
engineers to street punks.
Example: Bruce, Bryan, Geoff and Rebecca settle in for
a game of Mage. Bruce acts as Storyteller and thus sets the

4

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

stage, describes the world around the characters and takes
on the roles of various people or entities with whom they’ll
interact. Bryan decides to play WhiteOut, a pretentious Virtual
Adept hacker; Geoff takes on the role of Bronwyn, a sarcastic
Verbena botanist; and Rebecca tells of Lucinde, an erratic
Order of Hermes professor. Bruce lays out the opening of
the story with the players’ characters all brought to speak to
an aged magical Adept who wants their help in discovering
a lost treasure. Rebecca, as Lucinde, asks what’s in it for her
Order. Bryan decides that WhiteOut uses his computer skills
to research the mystic artifact. As Bronwyn, Geoff decries the
search, stating that legends tell that this magic item is malevolent and uncontrollable. Once they’ve said their pieces, Bruce
decides on what happens: He tells whether WhiteOut finds
any information in the computer and how the patron reacts to
the outbursts and questions of the other characters.

What is
a Mage?
There are just as many possible protagonists
as there are stories, but Mage games center
around special types of people. Shakespeare’s
play King Lear talks about the trials of a ruler.
J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel The Hobbit focuses upon
the travels of one lone hobbit in a very large world. In Mage, the
players assume the roles of mages — wise men, magicians and
visionaries, people who can change the world — and experience
the heights of enlightenment or the depths of despair.
While many stories depict mages as decrepit old men in
pointy hats, the wizards of the modern age come in varied
forms. A mage is the holder of special knowledge. Through that
knowledge, through enlightened insight into the workings of the
universe itself, a mage reshapes the world. This can take many
forms: Some mages use ancient sorcerous invocations or rely
on blood-pacts with spirits while a few use super-technological
tools or finely honed physical training. The mage is a person
whose belief is so profound that she can unearth and control
the very energies of creation.
Of course, a mage could be the old woman reading Tarot
cards down the street, the incredible computer cracker with
a talent for breaking codes or the man behind the counter
at the occult bookstore. Mages can be much, much more,
though. Contrary to old stories, mages aren’t necessarily
inhuman or servants of dark powers. However, there are so
many kinds of magic that nearly every story is true about one
mage or another. A great many half-truths and falsehoods

surround the myths of mages. Some are based in history
and were once true (but no longer are) while others were
simply folk tales.
• Mages must use formulae to cast their spells. False.
Though mages can and do pass down certain rituals to perform
magic, they can devise their spells from their own experiences.
Mages can even, with the right knowledge, create spells on the
spot for specific needs.
• Mages are not human, but instead pass on magic
in their own families. False. Mages are just as human as
anyone else; they Awaken to the power of magic regardless
of genetic heritage.
• Mages consort with demons and infernal powers to
gain their magic. False… usually. A mage’s power stems from
within, from belief, will and enlightenment. However, a belief
in the power of the infernal could lead a mage to work magic
through the auspices of demons and evil spirits.
• Mages cannot be hurt by mortal weapons. False. Just as
mages are human, they can be hurt and killed like other humans.
However, they can use their magic to defend themselves.
• Anything a mage does comes back upon her. True,
though not as people often think. While a mage’s spells do
not come back directly to affect the mage “threefold,” “seven
times” or the like, a mage’s spells almost always have some sort
of side effect. Mages call subtle side effects from a magician’s
emotional intent or desire Resonance. Blatant side effects
resulting from powerful magic are called Paradox.
• A mage can hurl lightning and fire, cause earthquakes
and fly through the air. True. With the right knowledge, a
mage can command the elements, transform herself or others
or create unnatural phenomena. However, doing so is very
difficult and dangerous in the modern age, and not all mages
are skilled in all areas of magic.
• Mages cannot perform magic in a church or against
someone protected by the cross. False. Magic works regardless
of the influence of religion. Indeed, some mages perform their
miracles as expressions of their religion. However, a rare few individuals —who aren’t necessarily even mages — can draw upon the
strength of their true and abiding faith to turn magic aside.
• Pushing a nail into a mage’s footprint or shadow
injures him; the presence of a mage makes horses sweat and
curdles milk. False. These are nothing more than old wives’
tales. Of course, if a mage believes this sort of thing enough,
it may well become true for him.
• Magic can’t be used with technology. False. Technology
and science are just other forms of belief, so they also work
with magic. In fact, many mages use incredible technology
instead of “magic.”
• Mages seek power and enlightenment. True. The quest
for magic is ultimately a journey of internal exploration. Those
who survive learn and grow more powerful. Eventually, mages
hope to surpass the limits of this universe, passing on to a
higher state through the process called Ascension.

The Magical World
Naturally, mages look to history or society for clues to
the hidden secrets of the arcane. Hidden in the puzzle-box
of human legacy are hints at the keys to the universe. Each
legend has some seed in truth, and every story points to some
lost secret, artifact or faith — or some horrid monstrosity or
revelation best left buried. Among humans, mages walk unnoticed, for they are human themselves, set apart only by their
awareness and acceptance of the buried mysteries that the rest
of humanity shuns.
The power of science has long since overtaken the world.
People order their universe in explainable, logical, rational steps
so that they can comfortably survive without difficult decisions
or supernatural threats. Mages must work hard to find the few
bits of magic that have slipped through the cracks and must be
ever vigilant against those who would forever extinguish the
might of mysticism. Some mages fight to overthrow the Technocracy that secretly feeds science and reason to humanity, but
many more simply slide between the chinks to survive, learn
and eventually find some resolution to the questions raised by
their magical awareness.

The Awakening
Every mage began as a normal person. At
some point, though, the mage Awakened. Some
potent event, terrible emotion or mysterious
circumstance opened the mage’s eyes to a magical world and to the mage’s ability to change
or master it.
Once Awakened, there’s no turning back.
A mage can embrace or deny magic, but the enlightenment
always remains. Ultimately the mage must decide upon a personal approach to magic: Whether to remake the world, seek
personal truths, destroy enemies or shun the mystical. Many
look to ancient tomes or handed-down cultural secrets for ways
to harness magic while some decide to apply their newfound
power to the tools of the modern world. In the end, they are
all heralds of change, even those who deny it.

History of Magicians
For as long as humanity has dreamed, struggled and
thought, there have been mages. The magicians of each age
hide among the pages of history, their secrets waiting for their
modern inheritors to rediscover them.

The Age of Legends
Long before recorded history, in days whose stories are
passed down only in rumors of legends, the world existed as a
unified whole of spirit and matter, imagination and flesh. In
these earliest days, humanity spread across the globe, contending with the spirits, monsters and animals of the world. Mages
in this era led humanity through their extraordinary vision.
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

5

These mortals strode the globe with their magical powers,
made pacts with spirits and gods, called down mighty forces
and shaped destiny. It is said that in these days limitless magic
was possible, for the world itself was filled with wonder. The
future held only possibility.

The Sundering
At some point long ago, the flawed universe suffered
a terrible tragedy. The physical world separated from the
spiritual. Where once concepts and whims could give rise to
reality, barriers rose to divide mortal men from the ghosts
of the dead and the spirits of nature. Magicians discovered
that their feats worked only with great effort and found that
only at certain places or times did magical wellsprings rise
to give the energy needed to power great spells. Arguments
raged between different mages about proper ways to perform
their rites, duties to humanity and the value of mysticism
versus reason.
Over time, magic became rare. While many talented mages
performed fabulous miracles, the working of magic increased in
difficulty. Mages had to band together and share their knowledge to advance their skills while competing groups jealously
fought over points of doctrine.

Early History
The first recorded human cultures tell of wizards or
heroes who founded civilizations — or corrupted them. In
ancient Babylon, Gilgamesh and Enkidu wrestled for immortality; in the Americas, indigenous peoples built tremendous
lines, mounds and stone calendars to track the skies and
appease the spirits; in Egypt, pyramids rose while pharaohs
prepared for the afterlife; in China, wise men consulted with
dragons and gods. These times gave rise to legends and wars
that resonated through all later history.
First among the heroes of the early age were mages. Seekers of knowledge and truth guided their cultures, rising as
heroes and kings to prominence. In these long-ago years, mages
worked with great armies or hid among secret societies. Magic
subcultures flourished as they hoarded mystic knowledge and
artifacts. Groups fought over moral issues and wondrous places
or just to test their strength.
In this time there arose Traditions of magic — formulae
and means to propagate magical mastery. Skilled mages
took others under their tutelage to expand their authority,
and groups of like-minded wizards worked together against
enemy factions.

The Dark Ages
Long after the ages of enlightenment in Greece, Rome,
Egypt, China and other places, the world moved into a
time of despair. Jealous rulers and churches mandated the
ways of humanity while magicians squabbled in cloistered
sanctuaries for the bits of precious knowledge not lost
to barbarism.

6

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

The Dark Ages saw the rise of many powerful and widespread magical factions. Hand in hand with the church, faithful
miracle workers spread messages of healing and salvation to
the populace. Witches and pagans danced in their wooded
sanctuaries, celebrating nature’s fertility. Isolated towers or
walled libraries housed magicians who studied celestial formulae,
alchemy and the magical sciences.

The Sorcerers Crusade
Though mages competed for mastery in the Dark Ages,
the end snuck upon them with the Inquisition and the Renaissance. Fanatical witch-hunters put magicians to the sword, and
the rise of universities and reason removed mysticism from
the history books. People turned from magic and myth to the
ordered world of scientific exploration.
Across the world, the fires of inspiration ignited — paragons
of reason fought off demons and beasts from beyond while

magicians came together in hopes of preserving wonder and
mysticism. Strange mages from distant lands banded together
to share their knowledge. The Order of Reason set down its
charge to make the world safe for normal humanity at the
Convention of the White Tower while the Council of the Nine
Mystic Traditions vowed to keep magic alive during their own
Great Convocation.

The Age of Reason
In earlier ages selected groups of humans treasured and
hoarded the few jealous magics that their secretive groups
studied — wizards in their reclusive chantries conveying
their gifts of insight to only a few, churchmen denouncing
heretical unbelievers and witches and pagans concealing
their ways from those who would hunt them. Every group
fell by the wayside when the Order of Reason promulgated
a magic of its own: rational thought, the benefits of which
could be made available to anyone. Even unenlightened
men could use the tools of reason. Learned philosophers
shared their advances through a web that spanned the
globe, promising a world shaped not by gods or goddesses,
but by humanity.
Great strides pushed science ahead. For the first time,
humans dreamed not of bowing to some invisible universe but
of puzzling out its ways and using its laws to their advantage.

By the same token, philosophers categorized and classified
the world, systematically removing the mystical or magical.
Mages fought back, starting squabbles or even outright wars,
but slowly, places of mystery gave way to world exploration
and the fervor of civilization. The Order of Reason reshaped
itself into the Technocracy, dedicated to the spread of science, reason and order across the world, recreating reality
in their own image.

Modern Magic
How can magicians live within the modern world? Skyscrapers and universities hold no room for dusty tomes and
mischievous spirits. Yet magicians and their ilk roam unseen in
mundane society. Any human can Awaken; the spark of greatness potentially lies in anyone. When a new mage Awakens,
the hidden Traditions — custodians who have handed down
centuries or millennia of magical practices — seek out and
educate the newcomer… if the Technocracy does not recruit
her first. Some few go their own ways or succumb to insanity.
Once the neophyte’s eyes have opened to the magical world,
there is no turning back.
Modern mages live a desperate existence. On one hand
they discover that all of their dreams and ancient stories are
true and that they have the power to shape the very world
with those dreams. However, the monsters of those dreams
are equally real, as is the threat of malevolent gods and
wild magic too dangerous for an unprepared orderly world.
The magician must balance awesome power with terrible
responsibility, facing both the horrid mythic monsters that
no other human can see and the Technocracy — who would
rob her of her mystical understanding, calling it a threat to
humanity’s safety.

Armageddon?
Mages say that the world careens toward a final end. As
the Traditions bemoan the death of magic, the Technocracy
realizes that humanity has settled into apathetic acceptance
of the banal, orderly world. The spark of creativity gutters in
humanity. Doomsayers prophesy that a final conflict shall
eradicate magic and open the floodgates of destruction upon
the world, either so it will be reborn in a new age or simply
destroyed forever. Some prophets assert that one final savior —
some unknown, last hero — will decide the final fate of magic.
Others claim that magic’s fate was decided long ago when the
Renaissance saw the birth of Age of Reason. This Armageddon
surely comes soon.

The Traditions
Founded centuries ago in the hopes of preserving magic
for this world, the Traditions hold the keys of mysticism,
dreams and radical creation. Under the umbrella of the
Traditions, mages can protect their cultures, learn about the
new powers they’ve gained by Awakening and trade magical knowledge in safety. Tradition mages share their special
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

7

skills through elaborate theories and practices and bond to
form cabals that work together. Through the Traditions,
mages from across the world can gather mystic prowess,
compare notes and exchange talismans, Quintessential
energy, secret locations and other artifacts of power. The
Tradition mages hope to guide humanity to accept wonder.
Carefully hiding among normal humans, these mages work
for a rebirth of magic.
Although Traditionalists have their share of failings
and foibles, most truly hope to make magic available to
the world at large once again. These nine Traditions cover
many different civilizations, with training from various
exotic disciplines and mystic specialties. Due to their sheer
diversity, the Traditions often act fractiously, and unity can
be difficult. Still, they each have a vision for leading humanity led to marvels, and when they act in concert, they bring
hope and wisdom.
Beginning mages work heroically to forward the goals of
the Traditions. Each mage hails from one of nine Traditions:
• The Akashic Brotherhood: Warrior monks and Eastern
scholars who combine martial arts with mental discipline.
• The Celestial Chorus: Scions of faith who cherish
the song of divinity that wells up in the human soul.
• The Cult of Ecstasy: Seers who use dance, music and
exotic trances to bring about altered visionary states.
• Dreamspeakers: Shamans and spirit-talkers from
across the world who share a tie to the primal realms of the
spirit plane.
• Euthanatos: Grim killers who balance the karmic
Wheel of life and death by bringing peace to those who suffer
too much or create too much suffering.
• The Order of Hermes: A politically influential gathering of arcanists and wizards who study alchemy, astrology,
symbology and the power inherent in words and forms.
• The Sons of Ether: Mad scientists and inspired physicians who use personalized devices and push the cutting edge
of technology.
• Verbena: Witches, druids and their ancient cousins
who nourish and protect the pulse of all life.
• The Virtual Adepts: Cutting-edge information elites
who specialize in computer hacking, data alteration and the
spread of chaos.

The Technocracy

Arrayed against the Traditions stand the enlightened
scientists of the Technocracy. Formed at first to protect
humanity from the horrors of rampaging monsters and
wild magic, the Technocracy became a ruling elite. Now
the Technocrats use their super-science to guide the Masses
while they stamp out anything that could prove remotely
threatening, incomprehensible or uncontrollable — including the mystics of the Traditions. Technocrats follow
rigid procedures to achieve their results, yet the space

8

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

ships and energy weapons that they wield might as well
be magic to the unenlightened. Centuries of dominance
over humans have given them a callous attitude: Only
the few willing to follow their master plan and able to
comprehend their ways garner merit — the rest become
fodder for their vast projects.
Technocrats comprise five Conventions. Iteration X, the
cyborg convention, focuses on material science, metallurgy,
weapons design and the border of man and machine. The
New World Order appears to be a giant bureaucracy but delves
carefully into education, psychology and the social sciences.
The Progenitors study medicine and the mechanics of living
beings, ultimately to create a better humankind. Syndicate
agents watch the flow of money and global economies; these
operatives blend in with businesses everywhere to bend entire
countries to the Technocracy’s will. Beyond Earth, the Void
Engineers explore the great deeps to keep out terrible aliens
that might threaten mankind and build prosperous stations
in space.

The Nephandi

While most mages struggle for personal enlightenment or
a chance to improve their lives with magic, some twisted souls
succumb to a darker temptation. Things cast from primordial
darkness wait beyond the stars or hover in the depths of a
mage’s own heart. Some such overlords offer power in exchange
for service while others tempt mages with the possibility of

knowledge at a catastrophic price. Those unfortunates who
dive into the Cauls return only twisted and inverted, shadows
of destruction instead of forces of creation. Each serves a different master, but ultimately every Nephandus seeks the return
of total entropy, the dissolution of the universe to seething
primordial turmoil.

The Marauders
Some few mages have not the strength to cope with
the Awakening. Cast into a shattered world by their broken visions, these mages have mad illusions thrown across
their lives. Little can save such mages from the random
vagaries of their existence, and many remain barely able to
comprehend the world around them. The Marauders lash
out without rhyme or reason to make sense of a universe
that will never conform to their delusional expectations.
What other mages build up, the Marauders tear down,
solely because they cannot find a comprehensible purpose
to their enlightenment.

The Disparates
Hidden in isolated corners of the world, a few lonely
magicians still ply the trades of their respective lost cultures.
While the Traditions and the Technocracy cross the world with
their overarching ideas, the Disparates hope only to maintain
their ancient ways in peace. Each Disparate mage holds the
seed of some culture’s unique insights into mysticism; few
are ever alike. Now more than ever, the Disparates fear for
their existence. The Technocracy ruthlessly crushes them and
the Traditions offer sanctuary at the cost of cultural identity.
Scattered Disparates form their own tiny cults or walk alone
as self-educated Orphans.

The Ascension War
Once, a war was fought.
The war spanned the entire cosmos. Mages battled
for hearts and minds, to spread their ideals or fight the
excesses of others. Tradition fought Technocracy to
free humanity from baleful slavery to rationality while
the opposition hoped to eradicate foolish myth and
dangerous mysticism. Ancient Masters manipulated
both sides to fulfill personal crusades.
Now the Masters have vanished or died. Errant
magicians must struggle merely to survive in a world
inimical to their creative idealism. The Ascension
War is over: Mages will not shepherd humanity to
enlightenment in this age. Instead, the mages hope to
survive and perhaps open the eyes of a few scattered
individuals for whom the world can be more than crass
material struggle.

Mage Society
In a secret conspiracy rife with disparate
worldviews and people whose very whims change
the universe, titanic visions clash with enormous
egos. A single misstep can derail a mage’s goals for
lifetimes, but success brings tremendous rewards:
Followers, fellow visionaries, dreams that shape
societies — even immortality.
Because mages must spread their ideas if those ideas are to
take hold, many magicians travel often. However, the wisdom
of ages must be stored somewhere so that it can be passed on
to new generations. Tradition and Technocracy mages alike
train new recruits in the same places they keep their volumes of
knowledge and most potent wonders hidden safely away — often
in other worlds or dimensions but increasingly in remote areas
of the material earth. In Tradition parlance, these holds are
chantries, sanctuaries where the Tradition mages keep libraries,
arcane devices and mystic allies.

The Oracles
Far beyond even the sight of most mages stand the Oracles.
Legend holds that Oracles cast the fate of the world itself and
perhaps that they stand against some great menaces that would
destroy the earth entirely. Many stories tell of the Oracles’ feats:
Some say that Oracles have Ascended and cast aside mortal
concerns; others state that Oracles have achieved total puissance
with their chosen Sphere of magical excellence; a few mages
argue that the Oracles simply possess vast powers and take a
long, watchful view, perhaps as demi-gods hovering over the
earth from the spirit world.
The Oracles rarely deign to visit the earth, for its petty struggles
rank far below their powers. Even on the few occasions when an
Oracle’s passage is noted, mages rarely comprehend the true depth
of her schemes. Some mages, called postulants, seek to become
Oracles themselves, but no recorded tale tells of their fates.

The Archmages
Deep in the spirit worlds, removed from the earth and
its mortal days, the Archmages contemplate the mightiest applications of the magical Spheres. Each Archmage possesses
understanding equal to hundreds of years’ work and the will
to recast whole segments of reality at whim. Because of their
immense powers, though, Archmages must beware lest the
very Tapestry of the universe unravel at their touch. Thus,
none dare to work within the constraints of the earthly realms.
Instead, they travel sublime planes where their merest thoughts
unveil deep mysteries of existence. Archmages preserve their
lives far beyond the mortal span, and because of their vast
potential, a sort of great détente prevents them from engaging
one another directly, for surely the rains of fire and storms of
destruction that would come in their wakes would spell doom
to the whole of earth.
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

9

through magical specialties and bitterly argued or fought over
among other mages who see the world in different terms.
In these turbulent times, Disciples and Adepts form the
core of mage society. They cast the new laws and decide the
politics of Tradition. Although Masters might affect policy
with a subtle comment or querying gaze, the sheer scope of
activity and responsibility among the younger mages assures
that it is they who drive the course of the magic community.
Characters are assumed to be mages of Disciple level or below.
Such Disciples can hope to rise to great prominence, but those
erudite magics far surpass the scope of this simple kit.

The Apprentices and Initiates

The Masters
The greatest of living mages on earth achieve the title Master
to denote their supreme mastery of one Sphere of magic (or more).
Given enough time and practice, most mages can hope to achieve
this level of skill, but mastery can be the work of a full lifetime or
more. Many pitfalls await along the road to mastery, for a mage must
have great self-possession and insight to reach the enlightenment
necessary. Indeed, mastery of magic is no promise of wisdom, for
selfish pride can come hand-in-hand with great power.
Few Masters remain on earth; their potent enlightenment
attracts many enemies. The scale of magic employed by Masters
also brings with it terrible peril; failure of complex formulae can
lead to death, insanity or worse fates. Even so, most every mage
still struggles for this level of skill — those who learn today may
become Masters tomorrow, and every one hopes to use her power
more wisely and effectively than the generations before.

The Disciples and Adepts
Among mages of moderate skill, much trade, jockeying,
power-brokering and even combat decides who will lead and who
will be left behind. Even a modicum of magely power can shake
the foundation of the world in startling ways. Though a Disciple’s
understanding is far from complete, these mages often travel
widely, consult with Masters for advice, explore diverse realms
and perform quests for personal gain or sagacity. Each Disciple
has goals blanketed under the umbrella of Tradition, carried out

10

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

Those mortals who have just passed the cusp of awareness
into magical enlightenment can never go back; they must advance
or perish — but to what? Few understand the world into which
they suddenly find themselves thrust. Without help, many go
mad or become captured and programmed by the Technocracy.
Tradition mages take these mages under their wings whenever
they are found, dubbing these new learners Apprentices or Initiates. The newly Awakened must struggle to understand magic, to
learn a way to handle their new insight. Apprentices often bring
their unique worldview to their studies; a fledgling magician has
a very different understanding of magic than a hundred-year-old
Master, after all. The tension as an Apprentice tries to reconcile
ancient practices with modern understanding can be considerable, and many Apprentices find themselves frustrated with
their training before they achieve real competence. Fortunately,
an Apprentice’s magic rarely takes forms strong enough to cause
serious risk, but Apprentices themselves often become embroiled
in the supernatural world just like other mages and may not have
the power to protect themselves properly. Apprenticeship is just
the beginning of a long and dangerous road that may end in
understanding or tragedy.

Character
Creation
Now that you have opened the door to the
wonderful and terrible world of magic, you can
create your own mage to explore it. Your mage
character has only a few key specifics: Select a Tradition, rank the Traits and choose your Spheres
of magic. Your mage also has ten points of Quintessence and
seven health levels. Quintessence determines your character’s
magical energy while health levels track bodily injury.
Before you get down to picking your character’s Traits,
think about the sort of mage you’ll play. Every character has
a role in the story, enters from some place and hopes to go
somewhere: What’s your mage’s role? As you play with a concept, you can get an idea of your mage’s Traits. A magician who
started as a football star will likely be more physical compared
to one who started with the mental acuity of a private inves-

tigator. Because a mage starts out as a human but Awakens,
your mage can come from any walk of life, so explore different
ideas until you find one that works for you.
Foremost among your mage’s qualities is the choice of
Tradition. Your mage’s Tradition is his magical heritage. As
such, the Tradition shapes all of the magic that your character
works and determines the individual’s strengths in mystic
understanding. Is your mage a wise but eccentric member of
the Order of Hermes? A sensual and mind-blowing Cultist of
Ecstasy? A grim, hard-bitten Euthanatos assassin? Write down
your Tradition, then write down your associated Aptitude
and Foci.
After you’ve settled on a Tradition and concept, prioritize
your Traits. Your character has four Trait categories: Physical,
Social, Mental and Magical. Rank these from 1 to 4; 4 is the
best and 1 is the worst — but you can only use each number
once, so you’ll have a 4, a 3, a 2 and a 1. If you’re playing that
hard-bitten private investigator, for instance, you may be really good at fact-finding and fisticuffs but a bit of a jerk with
limited respect for “superstitious nonsense”: Thus, you’d rate
the character Mental 4, Physical 3, Social 2, Magical 1.
Finally, pick your character’s Sphere levels. Each Tradition
teaches detailed knowledge of a specialty Sphere, but many mages
also have some skill in other Spheres of magic. Spheres can be learned
for Basic or Advanced magic. You automatically learn a Basic level
of your Tradition’s Sphere. In addition, you can pick five more
“levels” of Spheres: taking a Basic Sphere costs one “level” while
an Advanced Sphere costs two additional “levels.” So, if you want
your Tradition’s specialty Sphere at Advanced, that costs you two
levels (because you start with the Basic level for free); if you want
some other Sphere at advanced, that costs a total of three levels.
Alternately, you can drop one Sphere level in exchange for raising
one Trait category by a point: If you drop two Sphere levels, for
instance, you can raise two Traits by one point each or one category
by two points, say from a 2 to a 4. You can raise a Trait to a 5 in
this way, indicating the pinnacle of human aptitude.
Now you’re almost finished. Record your character’s
Quintessence (10), health levels (7) and a few details: name,
appearance, friends and family, habits and hobbies, personality and problems.
Once you’ve written this down, your character’s ready to
join the ranks of the Awakened. Check the following pages for
more details on Traditions, Traits and Spheres.

The Traditions
Some Traditions have founders; others
have heritages that are lost to the mists of
history. A few exist in only modern incarnations. Whatever the case, each Tradition
agrees to stand with its fellows, despite their
differences, in the quest for magic. Burdened

Character Creation Quick Chart
• Choose Tradition: Write down the Tradition Aptitude and Foci. The choice of Tradition also determines
your specialty Sphere.
• Choose Traits: Rank your character’s Physical,
Social, Mental and Magical Traits from 1 to 4; 4 is the
highest, 1 is the lowest.
• Choose Spheres: Note down your Tradition’s
specialty Sphere. Then choose five additional Sphere
levels, as follows:
• One level selects a Basic Sphere.
• Two levels select an Advanced Sphere — you must
already have the Basic level.
• One level trades in for an extra point on a Trait,
and you can raise one Trait to level 5 this way.
• Write down Health and Quintessence: Your mage
starts with 10 Quintessence and 7 health levels.
• Give your character a name, and make up some
background, appearance, personality quirks, mannerisms,
hobbies, habits and other notes for use in the story.

by the weight of history, the Traditions each claim special
privileges and difficulties.
Because the Traditions hand down very specific forms
of magical practice, each manages to pass down the strengths
of its technique, but each also has specific shortcomings. A
magician trained under the Order of Hermes, for instance,
has great command of names and universal forces, but often
labors under the weight of the Order’s political legerdemain;
Virtual Adepts, conversely, excel at manipulating computers
but have noted anarchic temperaments.
A mage joins a Tradition for the training and advantages
offered — without mentorship, development of magical arts
proves difficult indeed. The Traditions thus give an opportunity for mages of like mind to come together and share their
skills. Most mages know the predilections of each Tradition.
The Verbena, for instance, are renowned for their command
of Life magics, while the Akashic Brothers are regaled as the
masters of the Mind.
Your mage character needs to join with one of the nine
Traditions (the Technocracy holds five Conventions and numerous Crafts and Disparates fill out the ranks of mages, but
they are not detailed here). Each Tradition has an Aptitude
(an area of the mortal world in which these mages often excel).
Depending upon your Tradition’s teachings, your mage may use
certain Foci; these are tools of magic, the trappings necessary
to focus that Tradition’s mystic energies. Each Tradition also
teaches a specialty Sphere — an area of magical theory where
the Tradition focuses its research.

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

11

Akashic Brotherhood

Cult of Ecstasy

The martial arts of the Far East serve to hone mind, body
and spirit and bring all three into harmony. The Akashic Brotherhood practices such arts and espouses a simple, holistic lifestyle,
the better to promote a healthy existence. Through self-discipline,
martial training, philosophy and meditation, the Akashic Brothers
hope to realize the full potential of the human form. Historians,
priests, warriors, teachers, poets, samurai and artists study with
the Brotherhood. Such students hone their supreme martial skills
through Do, the way of pure and unfettered body, combined with
contemplation of the Brotherhood’s Akashic Record.
Akashic Brothers (and sisters — the Tradition does not discriminate) are well-known for their phenomenal mental control
as well as their bodily skill. An Akashic warrior can, with bare
hands and feet, decimate opponents, performing martial wonders
almost beyond belief. However, the young and hotheaded warriors often pull the Tradition into conflicts due to their desire
to promote the Tradition’s beliefs in holistic living and morality;
older Akashics recognize the folly of such recklessness and counsel
wisdom instead, but youth will always be impatient.
Aptitude: +1 with unarmed combat. The way of Do unlocks the natural highest potential of the human body, turning
Akashic Brothers into phenomenal warriors.
Foci: Meditation, martial arts
Sphere: Mind

Often mislabeled as pure hedonists, the Cultists of
Ecstasy practice many and varied vices — all of them to excess. An Ecstatic doesn’t pursue pleasure for its own sake,
though; as their name implies, Cultists seek ecstatic states
of mind, trances where the psyche wanders into forbidden
territory or passes into new realms of thought. By blowing
through their normal inhibitions, the Cultists chart new
territory of sensation.
Driven and passionate, Ecstatics sometimes find it
difficult to take matters seriously in the present moment
— their thoughts wander across many dreamscapes. Still,
they are known as prophets, for their ecstatic trances carry
their perceptions into visions of past and future. Other
magicians may consider Cultists wastrels or sybarites, but
the Cultists know their own limits — and, ultimately, hope
to surpass them.
Aptitude: +1 to Social rolls involving persuasion or seduction. Cultists shed their inhibitions and encourage others to
do likewise.
Foci: Music, dance
Sphere: Time

Celestial Chorus
Although separated from the organized churches for their
unorthodox views, Celestial Choristers hear the song of the
divine throughout all Creation. In harmony with the spirit of the
universe, the Choristers help humanity to reach for that nobility
and nurture the spark of grace within all living beings. Faith
healers, wandering preachers, exorcists and miracle-workers find
a home with the Chorus, whose mages combine their insight
with the will of the divine. To the Chorus, every religion has
value and every path to a noble life holds great truths.
The Chorus is best known for its religious diversity. Specific
beliefs may prejudice individual Choristers, but the Chorus
as a whole encompasses all manner of religion. Through their
faith the Choristers heal, harmonize and come in touch with
the traces of the divine across the Tapestry. In song they find
solace and share that peace with others.
Aptitude: +1 on all tests of resolve. The Choristers have
exceptional character and inner strength.
Foci: Singing, religious symbols
Sphere: Prime

12

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

Dreamspeakers
Ancient beyond imagining, the Dreamspeakers trace their
roots to the very first shamans to walk among humans. These
visionaries have commerce with animals, plants and spirits,
with the natural world and its spiritual reflection. Whether
using a dream-catcher and a gourd rattle or exotic paints and
techno-fetishes, the Dreamspeaker communes with the other
side to bridge the gap between man and myth.
Despite their recognition as a single Tradition, Dreamspeakers come from many folds. Early Tradition mages did
not understand the differences between shamanic cultures,
so Dreamspeakers include African practices, Australian aborigines, Ainu, Inuit, Native Americans and more — anyone
with a strong and abiding respect for and tie to spirits. When
the Dreamspeakers surpass the differences of their roots, they
form strong bonds indeed: All walk through the same spirit,
after all.
Aptitude: +1 in the outdoors. Dreamspeakers have a
strong tie to wild places and locales still haunted by spirits;
even urban techno-shamans regale the winding streets and
choked alleys.
Foci: Chanting, tribal rituals
Sphere: Spirit

Euthanatos

Sons of Ether

In the teeming streets of this crowded world, huge
families live and die in squalor or wealth, amid poverty or
feasting, from war or plague. The Wheel of Reincarnation
spins out lives for everyone without a care, and it lies upon
each individual to make a destiny from random chance.
Some few labor too greatly under suffering, though, and
for them the Euthanatos bring release. Others bring suffering to their fellow humans — and for them, too, the
Euthanatos come.
Reputed as quiet killers and assassins, the Euthanatos
seek to balance the scales of life and death, to fulfill the
criteria for chance and to end suffering for humanity. For
some, only the final release is enough, but the Euthanatos
act as sharpened scalpels, not butchers’ knives: Precision
and care go into every action. The Euthanatos take up the
responsibility that nobody else will bear that others might
survive them with better lives.
Aptitude: +1 to armed combat. Euthanatos learn the
secrets of death and assassination, though many hope to use
such talents as rarely as possible.
Foci: Weapons, symbols of chance
Sphere: Entropy

While most mages shun technology, the Sons of Ether
embrace it, but only on their own terms. Other mages call
them mad — but the Sons are enlightened by a true vision of
a personal and inspirational Science! With their malleable
understanding of subjective truth, the Sons of Ether create
wildly elaborate theories that in turn give shape to fantastic
devices. Each Etherite boldly advances the frontiers of Science
in the fashion most suited to her, embracing the principles
of Ether itself: luminous, invisible, infinitely malleable and
all-encompassing.
The Traditions consider the Sons of Ether crackpots,
but the bizarre inventions of the Etherites often prove useful. When other magic would draw suspicion, an Etherite
device might seem only unusual. Etherite understanding
of technology also helps in countering the work of the
Technocracy. For these reasons, and for their skill with all
forms of raw materials, the Etherites make a valued addition
to the Traditions.
Aptitude: +1 to technology rolls. Sons of Ether excel at using
electronics, plastics and similar materials of modern design.
Foci: Bizarre technology
Sphere: Matter

Order of Hermes
Early in the days of Greece and Rome, philosophers
proposed radical new ideas to the foundation of the universe:
Correspondences between objects of matter and thought;
words that described fundamental key concepts of existence;
symbols of geometry that held universal truths. Though some
philosophers developed these ideas into sciences, hidden
cults made them mystical — sciences founded on mystery,
not fact, and built with spirit, not reason. These languages
of symbols and tools passed down through secret cabals and
houses until they came to rest among the most prominent
society of wizards to emerge across Europe: The venerable
houses of the Order of Hermes.
The Hermetic mages study arcane sciences such as astrology,
alchemy and the names of spirits so that they might have power
over the material world. Recognized for their long-standing
practices, their fierce dedication to ritual history and their strong
contributions to the Traditions, the Order’s mages work at the
forefront of Tradition politics and magical theory. Hermetic
mages codify Spheres of magic, build new spells and carefully
hide away the medieval precursors of their magic in the secret
societies or fringe beliefs of the modern age.
Aptitude: +1 with scholastic endeavors. Hermetic mages
have perhaps the largest libraries and the most reputed tutors
among all the Traditions, for they proudly hold dear their
ancient ways.
Foci: Mystic languages, wands
Sphere: Forces

Verbena
The forbidding Verbena hold dear the ebb and flow of life
itself. Like predators, though, Verbena recognize life as a thing
that grows of its own accord, not something easily categorized,
ignored or thwarted by human reason. To the Verbena, all
that is natural is sacred. Acceptance of all living beings leads
to understanding of the delicately interwoven patterns of life
that spread throughout the cosmos.
Verbena use old rites to propitiate their web of life and to
invoke its power. By participating in sacred acts that reaffirm
life, the Verbena channel its energies. Symbols of living flow
become channels for growth, death and rebirth. Few can look
into the pulsing heart of life with such unflinching acceptance
as the Verbena.
Aptitude: +1 to all rolls involving knowledge of the body.
Verbena understand and accept living processes like no others,
which gives them intimate knowledge of physiology.
Foci: Runes, herbs
Sphere: Life

Virtual Adept

Always on the cutting edge, the Virtual Adepts surf
through the information age. Their vision is one of a Reality 2.0, a world devoid of the flaws of this poor meat body.
Bits and bytes are the weapons of the Virtual Adepts. Data
is their stock in trade, and by manipulating the very way
that the cosmos stores information, the Adepts rewrite the
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

13

Tapestry of creation. Like the uncontrolled information flows
that they follow, the Adepts are unpredictable, fast-moving
and ready to surf to any new destination. They cruise the
digital lanes, riding into the Digital Web — the projection of
the World Wide Web within the spirit realm — and exploring the ephemeral ties that some say bind mystic lines with
computer data routes.
Because of their relative youth as a Tradition and their
heavy reliance on technology, many modern mages look askance
at the Virtual Adepts. There’s no denying their usefulness in
combating the Technocracy, though, and the Adepts have a
devil-may-care attitude that carries them through the feckless
despair that falls upon many other Tradition mages. No Adept
takes authority seriously, but when the chips are down, an
Adept can be counted on to help her friends — if only so she
can brag about it later.
Aptitude: +1 to all tests involving computers. Virtual
Adepts use special computers of their own design, often with
AI partners, trinary hardware and other improbable technological advances.
Foci: Computers, mathematics
Sphere: Correspondence

Traits
Basic capabilities inherent to all people fall under the heading of Traits. Each Trait describes some quality that most people
possess and measures the character’s potency in that area.
Physical: This Trait describes a mage’s bodily capabilities:
lifting power, reflex speed and endurance. Use this Trait to resolve
all tasks involving fighting, climbing or survival.
Mental: This Trait indicates a mage’s cerebral acuity, sensory awareness, logic and cleverness. Use this Trait to resolve all
tasks concerned with perception, problem solving or reaction speed.
Social: This Trait covers a mage’s ability with people and
includes areas like command, manipulation and etiquette. Use
this Trait to resolve all tasks concerned with intimidation, leadership
and persuasion.
Magical: This Trait shows a mage’s strength of will, psyche
and enlightened understanding. Use this Trait to resolve all tasks concerned with magical power and resistance to supernatural influence.
Traits range from ratings of 1 to 4; a rating of 1 indicates a
poor Trait, while a rating of 4 indicates a world-class Trait. In rare
cases a character may have a zero Trait, which indicates a total
lack of capability in an area (for instance, a horribly crippled or
maimed character may have a zero Physical Trait). It’s also possible for mages to reach the pinnacle of human understanding
and to push just beyond, to a rating of 5 — some Archmages,
it’s said, climb even higher (though most mages would be hardpressed to reach the phenomenal rating of 5 at all).
The average human has ratings of 1 or 2 in most Traits.
Mages do come from human stock, but those who Awaken
find themselves thrust into a demanding world, and only the
exceptional survive.

14

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

1
2
3
4
5
6
5+

Trait Ratings
Abysmal
Mediocre
Pretty good
Really good
Human perfection
Superhuman (mages only)

When you build a new mage character, you rank these
Traits from 1 to 4. So, if you want to make your usual Akashic
Brotherhood martial warrior, you might take Physical 4 (from
years of unarmed combat training and conditioning), Mental 3
(representing excellent discipline), Magical 2 (indicating some
budding chi power and skill with meditation) and Social 1
(because all those years spent in a monastery haven’t helped
with people skills).

Spheres
Mages slowly study the miraculous power of
the Spheres, the nine keys to the universe. Magical theory posits that the universe is infinite, but
Tradition mages codify magic to make it possible
to teach and communicate about their theories
and practices. Each Sphere encompasses magical
theories about one facet of reality. With influence in the proper Spheres, a mage can perform miraculous
feats. True mystic understanding comes with time, practice and
concentrated effort in the Spheres.
Mages classify two levels of Spheres: Basic and Advanced.
Each Sphere level grants a wide variety of supernatural powers
though the mage must expend magical energy to use them.
Activating a Basic Sphere costs one Quintessence; using an
Advanced Sphere costs two Quintessence (though this includes
the Basic levels). Mastery of a Sphere is cumulative — a mage with
Advanced understanding can still perform the Basic tricks.
To cast a spell activating a Sphere, a mage must use a focus
(from her Tradition), and the player must make a Magic roll (difficulty 4). If the roll fails, then the magic doesn’t take effect; nothing
happens. If the roll succeeds, then the magic does what the mage
commands. If you decide that your mage will not to use a focus
(perhaps because it would be inconvenient or because it requires
an item that the mage lost), then the mage can still cast the spell,
but it costs one extra point of Quintessence — see further.
Some powers allow a mage to sense magic, minds, life
forces and the like. These powers cost nothing; the mage can
use them, for free, at any time.

Correspondence
Mages who study Correspondence learn to identify and cross
space. These mages can form connections between things or places.

Entropy
Understanding Entropy unlocks the wheels of fate, destiny
and decay. Everything spirals eventually into chaos, but the
Entropy mage learns to see an underlying order.

Basic
• Control Chance: Minor elements of probability bend
to the mage’s whim: The mage can shuffle and deal cards or
roll dice and receive exactly what he predicted.
• Increase Damage: A successful hit cascades into
terrible damage; the mage uses Entropy to force the target to
fall apart faster or just to take an unlucky wound. A successful
attack with this inflicts one extra level of damage.
• Sense Weakness: The mage can determine a target’s weak
areas. By targeting specific weak points once they is located, the
mage can avoid any penalties for the target’s armor or toughness.

Advanced
• Age Target: Infusing a target with excess Entropy

Basic
• Combat Sense: The mage becomes aware of the
exact motions and positions of everyone nearby. The mage
automatically gains the initiative unless someone else uses Correspondence or Time magic, in which case the two determine
initiative normally.
• Heightened Awareness: +1 to perception rolls. The
mage learns to precisely sense distance and dimensional space
around herself.
• Remote viewing: The mage can see something a short
distance away, scrying upon a nearby location or person. The
mage sees whatever transpires at a location up to a mile distant
as if he were standing there.

Advanced
• Teleportation: The mage simply blinks out of existence
in one place and reappears somewhere else. The mage can generally teleport to any place she can see, including those she can
see through other powers. Taking other people is possible but
harder: Add one to the difficulty for each additional person.
• Warp Space: The mage bends the very fabric of space to
make distance malleable. The mage can make two far-away locations
touch or cause an inch seem like a mile. The mage can use this
power to help someone travel a great distance in a turn (possibly
even leaping across the distance to attack) or can stop someone
completely in one place by bending space around the victim.

allows the mage to cause it to age and fall apart prematurely.
The target gains a full year of age. Paper yellows, wood rots
and people wrinkle; the shock alone may be enough to make
someone fall unconscious.
• Control Fate: The mage can influence the toss of fate.
Pulling the thread of destiny lets the mage alter destiny now,
but it will catch up later. The mage can re-roll any one roll at
any point in the adventure, but the Storyteller can later re-roll
any one roll against the mage.

Forces
Mages who study Forces learn to manipulate the fundamental constants of the universe: electricity, light, gravity,
heat and so on.

Basic
• Energy Control: Manipulation of base energy lets a
mage create or control various forces. The mage can make blasts
of flame or bolts of lightning or can start or stop electronic
devices. If used to attack or defend, this can cause or absorb a
number of health levels of damage equal to the Magic successes
scored +1.
• Sense Energy: The mage can “tune in” her senses to other
wavelengths of energy, like X-rays, radio waves, heat and so on.
• Telekinesis: With concentration, the mage can pick up,
move and manipulate small objects at a distance. Anything that
the mage can see, he can affect as if he could touch it himself.

Advanced
• Energy Mastery: The mage can conjure or manipulate
many forms of energy in various states. Used to attack, the mage
can hurl infernos or blasts of radiation that do health levels of
damage equal to the successes scored +3. The mage can also

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

15

make a shield against such attacks. By manipulating gravity or
kinetic energy, the mage can also fly.
• Weather Control: Like the witches of legend, the
mage can guide and direct the very weather. The mage can
cause clouds, storms, wind or clear skies. This lasts for about
ten minutes and covers approximately a city block.

Life
The secrets of Life yield influence over all growing things,
from animals to people.

Basic
• Healing: With a touch, the mage caresses the subject
and heals away injuries. The subject heals one health level for
each success that the caster scores on the Magic roll.
• Minor Mutation: A skilled mage can improve on
Mother Nature. Again, the mage must touch the subject and
cast this spell. The mage can then increase or decrease the
subject’s Physical Trait by one. This can briefly raise someone
to a 5 or lower someone to a zero. The effect lasts for about
an hour and is not cumulative — that is, you can’t keep raising
and raising someone’s Physical Trait over and over once you’ve
already improved it!
• Sense Life: The mage’s finely tuned sense of life allows
her to recognize the presence of living beings about her. The
mage can distinguish different animals or people by their life
signs and can easily tell if they’re injured or diseased.

Advanced
• Shapechange: The mage can assume the form of
any animal she likes, turning into a dolphin, a pigeon, a lion
— whatever! Or, she could just choose to change her human
shape a little, looking anywhere from slightly different to appearing a little like someone else (not well enough to pass a
close inspection, though). This lasts for up to a day.
• Major Mutation: With a touch, the mage changes
a living target in nearly any way she desires. The mage can
change the subject’s Physical Trait by one and can also give
the target some strange new feature like claws, gills or fur. As
with a minor mutation, this lasts for about an hour. A major
mutation can allow a human to soak damage from combat
(see the Combat rules).

Matter
Matter represents the building blocks of the universe.
With control over Matter, a mage can alter the very stuff of
the physical world.

Basic
• Create Object: The mage can conjure simple objects
from out of nothing! Simply specify the desired object — any
simple thing that you could hold in your hand — and you can
make it. The object stays for about an hour.

16

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

• Reshape Object: The mage easily reshapes matter,
sculpting objects as if they were clay. The item changes under
the mage’s hands to take whatever form the mage chooses to
shape it into. This change is permanent.
• Sense Matter: The mage can easily identify anything
he can sense. The mage automatically knows an object’s density,
mass, composition and other physical characteristics.
Advanced
• Alter Properties: The mage can swap around characteristics of various objects. By touching a piece of steel, for
instance, the mage can take its hardness and give that to a
shirt. Or she could make a pencil have the luster of gold. The
object keeps all of its other characteristics; the shirt wouldn’t
look like steel, and the pencil could still write or snap in half.
This lasts for an hour.
• Transmutation: Like alchemists of old, the mage literally changes one object into another. The rarer and more complex
the final object, the harder it is to transmute something. The mage
could turn her coasters into solid silver or change an enemy’s
gun into air. The transmutation, if it works, is permanent.

Mind
The secrets of the Mind grant control over thought and
the realms of thought beyond the shell of the body.

Basic
• Command: By combining a mental imperative with
a command, the mage causes a subject to obey a simple order.
If the mage defeats the victim’s Magic roll (the victim rolls at
difficulty 4), she can force the subject to obey a simple, nonharmful command.
• Empathy: With a careful attunement, the mage senses
the target’s emotions. Each success on the Magic roll lets the
mage ask one yes-no question about the subject’s state (“Are
you lying? Are you angry? Are you nervous?”).
• Sense Mind: Other thoughts around the mage create a
noticeable disturbance. When attuned to thoughts, the mage can
sense other minds around himself even if he cannot see them.

Advanced
• Possession: The mage takes direct control of the target’s mind! If a mage’s Magic roll scores more successes than
the target can get on a Magic roll (difficulty 4), then she takes
complete control of the subject for a number of turns equal
to the difference. So, if you get three successes and the target
only gets two, you have a turn to command his actions.
• Telepathy: Your mage can send thoughts, read minds
and make direct mind-to-mind contact. With a willing subject, your
mage can easily transmit or receive thoughts — even language is
not a barrier. If you want to use Telepathy on an unwilling subject,
the target gets a Magic roll (difficulty 4) to resist; if she scores more
successes than you did, your Telepathy does not work.

• Sense Magic: The mage easily sees the magical aura
around people, places or things. She can detect Tass, determine if a place is a Node or see the Quintessence that other
mages hold.
Advanced:
• Imbue Magic Item: The mage can place magical
power into an item for later use. You can simply choose to
put Quintessence into a normal item, making it into Tass.
Or you can put one of your magical powers into an item so
that other people can use it. Choose one magical power and
spend the Quintessence for this effect AND for that effect.
Then, spend extra Quintessence equal to the number of times
you want the power to be usable. So if you want to make a
wand that shoots blasts of fire, spend two Quintessence to
make the wand magical, one more for the Forces magic and
one additional point for each fire blast you want the wand
to be able to shoot.
• Improved Channeling: Not only can the mage take
Quintessence from a Node or Tass, he can briefly channel a
spark of Quintessence to negate Paradox or refresh himself.
Each success scored on the Magic roll gives the mage one extra
point of Quintessence or negates one point of Paradox from
the next spell cast.

Spirit
The spirit world waits just beyond the Gauntlet, next to
our own slumbering physical realm. There, powerful entities
wait for Spirit magic to summon them.

Prime
The very Tellurian, the universe itself, seethes with the
energy of Prime. Every thing and every piece of creation comes
from the power of Prime infused into a Pattern that shapes
the object or creature.

Basic
• Aggravated Attack: Your mage can make a strike
very deadly by infusing it with Prime power! An aggravated
attack cannot be healed with magic — mark off the health levels
with a star (*) to indicate the special damage. This damage
only heals with rest and time. An aggravated attack modifies
an existing attack, so your mage needs to make some other
attack (like firing a gun or throwing a fireball) and then use
this in addition.
• Channel Power: With a touch, your mage can transfer
Quintessence from object to person, person to person, object
to object and so on. The character can take Quintessence from
a Node, give Quintessence to another mage or transfer from a
piece of Tass to another piece of Tass. You cannot steal personal
Quintessence from another mage, though; the mage must give
it away with this power.

Basic
• Affect Spirit World: The mage can reach into the
spirit world and call for help or affect things there. Once successful, the mage can use her normal Traits in the spirit world
for a number of turns equal to the successes rolled for the spell.
This allows the mage to attack spirits with her Physical Trait
while staying in the material world or to call for help with her
Social Trait.
• Sense Spirits: The mage is aware of spirits nearby.
If desired, the mage can detect anything that happens in the
spirit world within physical range of his normal senses: So
if a spirit is in the immediate area, the mage sees and hears
it just as if it were physically present (but can tell that it is
a spirit).
• Spirit Travel: The mage makes a tear in the Gauntlet
and steps into the spirit world. Once there, the mage can travel
through spirit realms until she chooses to return (or until some
mishap befalls her). Each extra success past the first lets the
mage bring an extra person.

Advanced
• Spirit Servant: The mage can bind a spirit to his
service. If you can beat the spirit’s Magic roll with your Magic
roll, the spirit is forced to serve your mage. The spirit remains
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

17

Advanced
• Stop Time: The mage can step laterally outside the
flow of time so the rest of the world seems stopped. The mage
can then take one turn while everything else remains held in
time. Or the mage can stop something else while letting the
rest of the world flow on: So the mage could stop a thrown
knife in mid-air for a turn and then walk away. The mage must
be able to see the target of the spell.
• Superior Speed: The mage gains one extra action on
the turn after casting the spell. Additionally, the mage always
wins initiative if this power is active, unless someone else
also uses Advanced Time.

Quintessence,
Paradox and Health
Besides the previously-listed Traits, mages have three
other pertinent aspects: Quintessence, Paradox and
Health Levels.

Quintessence

a servant for one day for each extra success that you score: If
you get four successes and the spirit gets two, it is forced to
serve your mage for two days.
• Travel the Cosmos: The very far away places of the
spirit realm are hostile to life, but the mage can now travel
safely there. The mage can travel to any place in the cosmos
through the spirit world, though this may take a great deal of
time. The natural hazards and creatures of the spirit world can
still hurt the mage, of course.

Time
The inexorable march of Time proves malleable to properly
erudite mages. Control of Time affects the flow and perception
of the clock and even lets the mage alter past and future.

Basic
• Increased Speed: The mage automatically wins the
initiative because of her command of Time. If another mage
uses magic to win the initiative, then the two test normally.
• Precognition/Retrocognition: The mage can gather
brief glimpses of a possible past or future. What the mage sees,
exactly, is up to the Storyteller. Generally, the mage can see
one day into the past or future though, with many successes,
longer durations might be possible.
• Sense Time: The mage can tell if someone in the
area is using Time magic or if a strange time warp or other
anomaly manifests.

18

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

The “fifth essence” helps mages to perform miraculous
feats. A mage can feel this magical energy as it fuels her powers.
Often, mages fight for places of power where they can collect
Quintessential energy. Mages can hold ten points of Quintessence, using it to cast their spells.
A mage spends one point of Quintessence when she performs a Basic spell and two when she performs an Advanced
spell. If she performs the spell without using foci, she must
spend an extra point of Quintessence.
Mages find Quintessence in magical treasures called
Tass or naturally occurring mystic places called Nodes. A
mage with Prime magic can sense such items and places
when they are near, which can help a cabal to replenish its
power. Most chantries have a nearby Node and may charge
visiting mages to use it for Quintessence. Tass, on the other
hand, takes the form of physical objects that must be broken
or consumed; Tass-laden bread, for instance, gives the mage
Quintessence when it’s eaten. Mages with Prime magic can
also give Quintessence to their friends.

Paradox
Paradox represents reality bending back to assault
the magic. When a mage casts a spell to fly in the air, the
“real world” says that the mage can’t fly — it’s a Paradox!
So, the magic sometimes goes awry. Therefore, a mage
gains one point of Paradox any time that he attempts to do
something that couldn’t happen in the “real world.” The
“real world” says that people can’t throw lightning from
their fingertips, so a mage would get a point of Paradox
for doing that. However, nothing says that you couldn’t
just happen to find some extra change in your pockets, so
if a mage uses a spell to “help” him find a little cash in his
wallet, it’s not a Paradox.

A mage can choose to bend reality by will alone — this
costs no Quintessence. Instead, the mage gains Paradox points
equal to the Quintessence cost. So, if a mage wants to do an
Advanced spell but only has one point of Quintessence, she
spends the Quintessence and gains one point of Paradox.
When the mage gains Paradox, roll one die and consult the
following table. Unless the table says otherwise, all of the mage’s
Paradox goes away once the roll is done.
If a mage takes damage from Paradox, it takes the form
of nasty welts or burn marks. Magic will not heal Paradox
damage, only with time. A Paradox Effect, on the other hand,
means that the magic does something unexpected: It might
affect another target, work at half strength, become reversed
or do anything else that the Storyteller decides. The mage has
no control over the end result.

Paradox Chart
1
2-3
4-5
6

Remove the Paradox; nothing bad happens…
this time!
Take one health level of damage per point
of Paradox
Take one health level of damage (total), and
a Paradox Effect
Save up the Paradox until next time

Health
Mages are essentially human, and thus take damage as
mere mortals do. They have seven health levels before taking
fatal damage, each representing increasing stages of wounding.
They are Light, Light, Medium, Medium, Serious, Serious and
Critical. As wounds are accumulated, each box is checked off.
Magic may used to heal this damage, as described under the
basic life power: Heal Wounds.

Pain
A mage who is hurt suffers negative modifiers due to the
pain he is in. After having reached the Medium health level,
a mage is at -1 die to all actions. At the Serious wound level,
this increases to -2 dice to all actions. At Critical, the mage has
a 1 die maximum, without even the benefits from his Tradition’s training. 1 die is the minimum number of dice rolled,
regardless of wound level.

Death
When all health levels of damage have been taken, the
character is nearly dead. She will bleed to death within a
number of minutes equal to the Physical Trait. Medical efforts or magic can prevent this if done in time. If not, the
character is dead and is out of play for good. Time to make
a new character!

Rules
Most of the time, the events of a mage game
are merely a narrative description as created by
the players and the Storyteller working together.
Sometimes, though, the game requires rules for
dealing with more involved actions.
The quick start system uses six-sided dice for
actions. Six-sided dice can be found everywhere:
Check a common board game, a hobby shop — pretty much
anywhere — and you can get these dice. Even one will do, though
more are recommended for ease of making rolls.
When a character undertakes an action and the Storyteller
decides the outcome is uncertain, the player rolls to determine
what does occur. The Storyteller determines which trait is most
appropriate to the roll — Physical, Magical, Mental or Social — and
has the player roll that many dice, plus or minus any penalties
or bonuses the character might have. The difficulty number
is a value between 2 and 6 as assigned by the Storyteller. If at
least one of the dice equals this number, the attempted action
succeeds. If not, it fails.

Automatic Tasks
versus Dice Rolls
Most of the time, actions attempted are automatic. If a
player has her character walk down a street or buy groceries,
the action succeeds automatically and does not require a roll.
For dramatic purposes, other tasks, such as cooking or driving,
can be assumed to succeed without rolls, even though there is
a possibility of failure. A roll need only be made if an event’s
success or failure has dramatic effect or if the chance of failure
is particularly high.

Difficulties
Difficulties range from 2 to 6. Difficulty 2 actions are
commonplace and easy while difficulty 6 actions are almost
guaranteed to fail. As a general rule, the standard difficulty
is 4. The highest difficulty is 6, even if the difficulty should
be higher — if necessary, reduce the difficulty to 6.
2
3
4
5
6

Easy (Starting up a computer)
Routine (Getting a Tradition librarian to help
with research)
Normal (Driving in rough traffic and bad
weather)
Challenging (Completing an hour-long ritual)
Really tough (Besting a powerful spirit in a
contest)

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

19

Number of successes
For each die that equals or exceed the difficulty, you garner
one “success.” A single success indicates that the action succeeded,
if only barely. Getting more successes indicates a greater margin
of performance. As an example, a Virtual Adept (Mental 4) is
writing a computer program to steal money. A single success
indicates that the program works most of the time but only manages to steal a little money and perhaps leaves traces behind. If
the player rolls three or four successes, the program would steal
larger amounts of money without any traces left behind.
Successes
1		
2		
3		
4+		

Quality
Just barely
Good job
Well done
Excellent performance

Example of Play
Rebecca’s character, Lucinde the Hermetic, needs to dig
through an ancient Hermetic library for research notes on
a spell that she hopes to study. After the character spends
several hours of sorting through files, which the Storyteller
merely describes briefly, Lucinde discovers a book that looks
promising — but someone has misfiled it! The Storyteller asks
Rebecca to make a Mental roll, difficulty 4, to figure out where
the book could be; Rebecca knows that it’s somewhere in the
library, probably nearby, just misplaced (the Hermetics frown
on letting books actually leave their libraries). Rebecca rolls two
dice for Lucinde’s Social Trait of 2, and scores a 5 and a 2 —
just enough to get one success! After another fifteen minutes
of searching, she discovers the book.
If the Storyteller had decided that the book were hidden in
an alcove or the cover had been torn off to make identification
impossible, she might have raised the difficulty of the roll to 5
or 6 or might have decreed that Rebecca needed two successes
for Lucinde to find the book.

Contests
Players will often find their characters in conflict with other
creatures, people, mages, supernatural beasts, and the like, not
merely attempting unresisted actions. These events are known
as contests and are resolved slightly differently that normal rolls.
Each character involved rolls dice normally against the same target
number. The highest number of successes wins, while ties reroll.
As with normal rolls, almost all contests are difficulty 4.
The aggressor rolls first in a contest, then the defender.
Example: Xian the Akashic monk tries to execute a perfect
push exercise against her practice partner, who is trying to
push back. Xian’s player rolls Physical 3 (3 dice) and scores 2,
4, 6 — two successes. The opponent rolls Physical 2 (2 dice)
and garners 1, 4 — one success. Xian manages to push her
partner off-balance with her masterful skill.

20

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

Drama
Being magical people, mages tend to find themselves in all
sorts of quandaries, from battles to spirit journeys to illogical
strangeness. The following systems help to clarify some such
possibilities.

Time
Mages long ago realized that time is hardly set — a moment can seem to crawl while hours fly; the past is as fluid as
the future. However, in game terms, it’s useful to define time
a bit more concretely.
Turn: A turn takes about three seconds; it’s used for fast
moves, when split-second decisions are made and people are
rapidly responding to the action around them. Each character
gets one action in a turn unless some magic speeds this up.
Scene: A scene covers a sequence of events that happen
in the same basic area and block of time. So, if the characters
spend some time in a restaurant or walking down the parkway,
that’s a single scene. Once the characters leave for a new locale
or break for time to pass, the scene shifts.
Story: A sequence of scenes and events tells a story. Usually
a story covers a series of scenes that go from inception to climax
to resolution though not all stories are so strictly defined. A
story simply tells one tale from beginning to end.
Example: In the movie The Matrix, each trade of Neo and
Morpheus’s kung fu strikes takes a turn; the entire training
program in the dojo lasts for a scene; and the whole of the
movie tells a single story.

Initiative
Who goes first? When multiple people act, time is of the
essence — and the first one there gets the prize as they say. The
character who goes first in a turn is said to have the initiative: The
character’s on the up-and-up, executing her plans before others.
To determine initiative, compare Traits in this order:
Advanced Time (Activated)
Basic Time or Correspondence (Activated)
Highest Physical
Highest Mental
Ties: Roll one die; the highest roll wins. Keep rolling until
the tie is resolved.
Example: Xian uses her skills at Do to launch a devastating
kick at a Technocratic cyborg drone. Neither has Advanced
Time. Both have Basic Correspondence, so they compare
Physical Traits. Xian has a 3 and the cyborg has a 3. Comparing
Mental Traits, Xian has a 4 and the cyborg a 2; Xian goes first.
If they had had the same Mental Trait, then the tie would’ve
gone to whoever rolled highest on one die.
If Advanced Time grants an extra action, that action comes
at the end of the turn after everyone else acts. Multiple people
with Advanced Time actions go in the order listed above.

Combat
Mages battle over the very fundamentals of
the universe — no wonder they get into scrapes!
The Technocracy brings weapons to bear against
the Traditions, who in turn use their mystic
powers to defeat their foes.
Combat generally runs in turns. Each combatant takes his action according to his initiative
and determines the results with the system previously described.
Most combat falls into the Physical task category though a mage
can use magic to launch various telepathic assaults and force
strikes. Aside from magical attacks, basic combat falls into one
of two types: close combat and ranged combat.

(from long range to medium, for instance, or from long range
to out of range).
• Straight Run: If the defender simply charges the attacker
without dodging, he may not defend and uses up his turn, but
if he survives, he ends the turn in close combat range.
Damage: Damage from thrown objects and gunshots depends
upon the accuracy of the attack. A thrown object scores damage
equal to the successes scored +1; a fired mechanical missile, like a
crossbow bolt or arrow, does damage equal to the successes scored
+2; a bullet does damage equal to the attack successes scored +3.
Soak: Bullets and thrown objects can be soaked by armored
or defended characters as with close combat attacks; most mages
will not get to soak these attacks without magic.

Close Combat
When characters fight with fists, swords, claws and similar
weapons, they’re in close combat. Attacks move in order of
initiative. Each attacker can strike, grab or dodge.
• Strike: The attacker rolls Physical (difficulty 4). The
combatant contests with a defense (Physical, difficulty 4). If the
attacker scores more successes than the defender, he hits.
• Grab: The attacker rolls Physical (difficulty 4). The
defender defends as usual (Physical, difficulty 4). If the attacker scores more successes, he grabs the defender. Each turn
thereafter, the attacker automatically inflicts damage until the
defender manages to injure the attacker.
• Dodge: The defender actively dodges all incoming attacks. The dodging defender gets a +2 to all of her Physical rolls
to avoid attacks; if she manages to beat the attacker’s successes,
she gets the initiative on the next turn!
Damage: If an attacker hits, she scores damage levels
equal to her Physical Trait, or (if using claws or a weapon) her
Physical Trait +1.
Soak: Although mages are mortal, altering a character’s body
with Life magic may enable her to absorb some punishment; and
robots, spirits and monsters can often soak up damage. Such
defenders get to make a Physical roll (difficulty 5); if successful,
the character takes only half damage, rounded up. Aggravated
damage —caused by the Prime magics — cannot be soaked.

Ranged Combat
Thrown objects, arrows, guns and the like are part of ranged
combat. The attacker can choose to strike with a weapon while
defenders can only hope to dodge or use magic to defend.
• Strike: A ranged strike can be at short, medium or
long range. Long range is difficulty 5; medium is 4; short is
3. At short range, though, the defender can use close combat
against the attacker.
• Dodge: A defender can dodge normally, just like in
close combat; success does not automatically grant initiative.
However, the dodging defender can choose to run and change
the distance between herself and the attacker by one category
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

21

The Umbra
Beyond the reach of our world lies a shimmering reflection — the Umbra. The Umbra is the spirit world: The
psychic reflection of everything physical. If a tree or a valley
exists in our world, it exists as well in the Umbra. However,
age and strength of spirit hold more weight there; an old,
dilapidated house that held a family for three generations
will show up more strongly in the Umbra than a brand-new
skyscraper, which might not yet exist at all. Throughout the
Umbra, spirits move and dwell, sometimes peeking in on
human affairs. Daring mages can even cross over to that side
to travel the land of spirit.
Traveling to the Umbra is dangerous business. In
legends, only great heroes like Orpheus dared to travel
into the spirit world, and sometimes they did not return.
A mage who dives into the spirit world using Spirit magic
suffers one level of aggravated damage, just as if hit by the
Prime-powered Aggravated Attack; this cannot be absorbed
or prevented.
Once in the Umbra, the mage is ensconced in a sea of
wonders. The Near Umbra mirrors our world, and the mage
can freely travel about and even return to the material world.
By reaching beyond, though, the mage can travel to other spirit
realms. The mage can also dive into the Underworld, the land
of the dead. There, ghosts roam and demand aid from the
living, but it is not safe — mages who travel there risk joining
the dead forever.
There are many spirit planes in the Umbra. Any place that
people can imagine can exist here. In distant realms, there may
be paradises or torturous deserts, science fiction realities or
fantastic jungles. Some places are realms of abstract thought.
Others house primal instinct and passion from days when the
world was newly-born.
Mages with Advanced Spirit magic can travel further
into the Umbra. These mages can dive into the Deep Umbra,
the cold realms beyond space. Strange things wait in the
Deep Umbra; it is said that these creatures are patrons to
the Nephandi. Mages so far afield can also find other worlds
like Earth, places inhabited by other creatures with their own
Near Umbrae.
Reaching into the Umbra takes time and effort. The difficulty for the Magic roll varies with the area. Strongly spiritual
areas offer easier access into the spirit worlds than more technological and rational places.
Within the Umbra, different rules apply. Magic is easier
there. The spirit world keeps magic alive. Mages do not risk
Paradox in the Umbra unless they are forced to cast spells without Quintessence. Even then, the Umbra bursts with energy;
mages can usually find some Quintessence in the form of small
wellsprings of energy or by bartering with spirits. Unfortunately,
any Paradox that a mage already has does not go away just by
entering the Umbra.

22

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

2
3
4
5
6

Umbra Crossing Difficulty
Secluded glade
Deep woods
Park
Suburbia
Downtown

Nodes
Nodes represent places where Quintessential energy pours
through the Umbra and the material world. These junctures
always act as places where mages can cross easily into the Umbra
(difficulty 2). Better still, Nodes represent power. Each Node gives
off a small amount of Quintessence. Mages with Prime magic
can take that Quintessence for themselves. Left undisturbed,
a Node leaves Quintessence in small objects around it; these
things become Tass, which mages can collect and use.
Many mages hope to build chantries at the site of Nodes
so that they have easy access to Quintessence. Some mages
even use the power of Nodes to cast their spells so that they
can have homes in the Umbra where they visit.

Spirits
Nodes and Umbral realms are home to spirits. These
beings are creatures of ephemera, spiritual matter, and they
represent emotions or concepts. Each spirit has a particular
special province, so there are spirits of fire, spirits of peace,

spirits of reason and spirits of power, and many, many more.
Spirits vary in scope: Some are quite small and weak while
others command vast powers beyond those of mortal mages.
However, spirits are usually trapped in the Umbra unless a mage
uses Spirit magic to bring them to the material world.
A spirit’s personality and motives depend upon its type. A
small, not-very-bright fire spirit might simply try to set everything
in reach upon fire, but a crafty old fire elemental could barter
with mages for rare incenses and special things to burn. Mages
who deal with spirits can try to use their magic to bind or fight
them, but eventually their luck will run out; it’s usually better
to pay respect and deal with the spirits on even terms.
Spirits have all of the usual Traits except Physical: Most
spirits have no physical form. A spirit that is attacked physically
is unaffected unless the mage uses Forces or the Prime power of
Aggravated Attack; the spirit defends with its Magic Trait. Because
they are not human, spirits are not limited to 1-4 for their Traits,
and very powerful spirit lords may have ratings of 8 or more! A
spirit does not use Spheres for magic; instead, it has two or three
powers based on its type. So, a fire spirit would simply roll its Magic
rating and spend one Quintessence to try to light something on
fire. The Storyteller can simply choose an appropriate effect from
the Spheres to simulate these powers, of course.
Spirits do have Quintessence, and mages can barter with
spirits for this energy. Spirits may give Quintessence to mages
if properly supplicated.

Pursuit and Chases
Sometimes, characters get involved in drawn-out chases.
Chases are resolved just like initiative: The faster character wins.
Advanced Time (Activated)
Basic Time or Correspondence (Activated)
Highest Physical
Highest Mental
Ties: Roll one die; the highest roll wins. Keep rolling until
the tie is resolved.
Example: Xian flees from the Iteration X cyborg after
injuring it, realizing that it has a plasma rifle. She has Basic
Correspondence, but so does the cyborg. She has 3 Physical,
but so does the cyborg. She has 4 Mental while the cyborg
only has 2. Xian manages to evade the hunter-killer!

Social Interaction
When belief is on the line, people can get downright
fanatical. Mages can argue, harangue and resolve their social
difficulties in many ways.
• Intimidation: Roll the Physical Trait for physical threats,
the Social Trait for condescension or the Mental Trait for
intellectual bullying. The victim resists with her Magic Trait.
This is a contested roll.
• Leadership: A mage can try to bring disparate groups
together or issue orders, but must make a Social roll. An unwilling subject can contest with a Mental roll.

• Seduction: The mage uses his Social roll in a contest
against the subject’s Magic rating.

Stealth
Sometimes mages just have to sneak around, like when
Tradition mages need to get past Technocracy guards or
through a secure complex. The stealthy mage rolls Physical
(difficulty 4) while the guards try to contest with Mental (also
difficulty 4). If the mage wins, she’s undetected; if the guard
wins, he spots the sneak. On a tie, the guard thinks he sees
or hears something and becomes alerted and cautious; future
rolls to spot the mage are at difficulty 3 for the remainder
of the scene.

Story Ideas
• The Awakening: The mages are initiates who
have just recently awakened to their magical
powers. They must find Tradition mentors,
discover the limits of their capabilities and deal
with their role in a dangerous, magical world.
Technocratic agents may seek them out for
recruitment, or to destroy them. How will they
reconcile magic with their lives? What about their families and
un-Awakened friends?

• Traditions Lost: The Traditions have lost much knowledge
throughout history. The mages could gain prestige, power,
or just renewed hope for the Traditions by recovering some
lost item of wisdom. The mages might need to travel to a new
city or country, track down leads, talk to other magicians who
have heard of this lost relic and so on. Perhaps they can go to
the Umbra in search of spirits that know about the formulae
they seek. Do they use the knowledge for their own gain?
Unearth forbidden lore that was hidden with good reason?
Risk the Traditions over a piece of magic that’s become
worthless over the years?
• Fightin’ Words: Mages from different Traditions argue over
their respective roles and beliefs. An Akashic Brother might try
to rail against the use of technology while a Virtual Adept uses
computers to free peoples’ minds. How do the friends reconcile
their positions? Can their magic find a way to work together?
What if one takes serious steps — like dealing with Nephandi or
Technocrats — to gain an upper hand for her position?
• Social Darwinism: The mages decide to make a positive
change in their community, using their newfound powers.
Perhaps they run a shelter, start up a community center, found
a social club or open a new business. How do they get funding?
How do they avoid the touch of the Technocracy? What happens
when politicians and community leaders get involved on a
scale that the mages’ magic can’t control? What if undesirable
elements try to spiral their project out of their control?
MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

23

Player Name:
Character name:
Tradition:
Aptitude:
Physical

Social

mental

OOOOO

OOOOO

OOOOO
Health

Spheres:
____________________

Light

____________________

Light

____________________

medium

____________________

Medium

____________________

Serious

____________________

Serious

____________________

Critical
Mortal

Possessions:

Quintessence

____________________
____________________
____________________

•

____________________
____________________
____________________
24

MAGE INTRODUCTORY KIT

Paradox

